# What are signals?



A signal is a system message sent from one process to another process. A signal is not used usually to transport data, but instead it is used to remotely command the partner process.

## Properties of the signals

- [ ] signals are small system messages. Recipients of the signals are going to interpret the meaning of the signals
- [ ] signals can be sent from the operating system to an application, signals can be sent from one application to another application. NEVER can a signal be sent from one application to the operating system.
- [ ] When a process receives a signal, that process can behave in three modes:
  - the receiving **process can execute the default action for that signal (DEFAULT)**
  - the receiving **process can do custom processing for that signal by executing a signal handler routine (CUSTOMIZED)**
  - the receiving **process can ignore the signal (IGNORE)**



### Signal Handler Routines

A signal handler routine is a **special function which is invoked when a process receives a signal.**

Before using the signal handler routine, we need to **register the signal handler routine against that type of signal.**

**Signal handler routines are executed with the highest priority**, even before the normal execution of the process. A process ceases immediately the normal execution flow when receiving a signal whose signal handler routine is registered. That process executes the signal handler routine before continuing its normal execution flow.



## Types of signals in the Linux Operating System

There are approximately 30 signals supported by the Linux Operating System.

### Most important signals 

#### SIGINT (The interrupt signal)

This signal is **generated by the operating system and this signal is delivered to the process when pressing the CTRL+C** combination of keyboards. The default behaviour of a process under SIGINT signal is that the process terminates immediately.

#### SIGUSR1 and SIGUSR2 (user defined signals)

These kind of signals can be user defined. They are sent from Process P1 to Process P2. The behaviour for a process when receiving the SIGUSR1 or SIGUSR2 is not defined by the operating system. So to say, there is no default behaviour in this case.

#### SIGKILL

The SIGKILL signal is originated by the operating system and it is sent to a process in the user space when the command `kill -9 process` is invoked from pid. The named process terminates immediately. The SIGKILL signal can not have a customized behaviour, so to say it can not have a signal handler routine.

#### SIGABRT

This signal can not be blocked and it can not be customized.  The SIGABRT is invoked by the system call `abort()`. Whenever this signal SIGABRT is called, the operating system delivers the the signal to the process which invoked the `abort()` system call.

#### SIGTERM

The SIGTERM signal is raised when the system call `kill()`  is invoked.  Unlike SIGKILL, the behaviour when receiving **SIGTERM can be customized by means of a signal handler routine.**  The SIGTERM signal is delivered by the operating system to the process when invoking the system call `kill processID`

#### SIGSEGV

This SIGSEGV signal means segmentation fault signal. This SIGSEGV signal is raised the operating system (Linux Kernel) to the process when illegal memory is referenced. **SIGSEGV** is an aggressive signal, and it **can not be customized by means of a signal handler routine.**

#### SIGCHILD

The SIGCHILD signal is emitted whenever a child process is terminated, this signal is sent to the parent process. When receiving this signal, the parent process should execute the `wait()` system call to read the status of the child process.
